Q.1 What is software? What is software engineering?
Ans. Software is a program or set of programs containing instructions that provide desired functionality.
     Software Engineering is the process of designing, developing, testing, and maintaining software.

Q2.Explain types of software.

Ans.   There are three types of software.

           1. System software 2. Application Software 3. Programming Software


          1. System Software: System software allows the user to run computer software or hardware and is responsible for managing their interaction with each other.
                               System software is of four types, which are as follows.
                               1. Operating System – The operating system is a collection of software that helps execute programs and offers a computer application’s general services. 
                                  There are various types of operating systems, such as iOS, macOS, Windows, Unix, Linux, and Ubuntu, among others.
			       2. Device Drivers – Device drivers handle the operations of the hardware devices connected to a computer. They act as a software interface for the 
                                  hardware devices so that applications and the operating system of a computer can run the hardware functions without knowing of 
                                  the hardware’s exact specifications.
                               3. Firmware – Firmware is embedded in the read-only memory of a system and is a type of permanent software that offers low-level control for certain 
                                  device hardware.
          
 
         2. Application Software: Application software or application programs are end-user programs that serve specific functionality to help users accomplish certain tasks. This 
                                  includes graphic designing, researching online, drafting documents, watching movies or playing games, and managing finances among others. Developers 
                                  keep creating software applications based on the evolving needs of users. There are various types of application software, which are as follows-
                                 1. Word Processors – Word processor software, as the name suggests, is designed for making notes, typing data, and documentation. Users can also  
                                    format,  store, and print their data and documents respectively using word processes.
                                 2. Database Software – Also known as Database Management System (DBMS), database software allows users to perform various operations on quickly 
                                    retrieved data, such as creation, management, organization, and modification. Some popular examples of DBMS are MS Access, dBase, MySQL, Oracle, 
                                    Microsoft SQL Server, and FileMaker.
                                 3. Multimedia Software – Users can perform certain actions on their computer, such as playing and recording music and video files as well as creating 
                                    images with the help of multimedia software. This type of software has a massive application in the field of graphic designing where users create 
                                    gifs, images, animations, and edit videos. Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, Windows Movie Maker and Media Player, Corel Draw, and Picasa are some 
                                    common types of multimedia processors.

        3. Programming Software: Programs and software are created by coders using different software tools, known as programming software. Some such programs used for software 
                                 development by coders are as given below-
                                 1. Compilers – The conversion of codes written by humans into lower-level machine code is performed by compilers. These machine codes can be 
                                    interpreted directly by computer hardware. While compilers serve a very basic purpose, they are the basis for creating even the most complicated 
                                    and sophisticated software.
                                 2. Debuggers – Debuggers play an essential role in ensuring your software or application performs well by testing and debugging the computer code.
                                 3. Linkers – Linkers are responsible for combining various individual files from a compiler into a single executable file. The file was converted, as a 
                                    the result runs on its own without requiring a programming environment.

Q.3 What is SDLC? Explain each phase of SDLC.

Ans. The Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a process used by software development organizations to plan, design, develop, test, deploy, and maintain software applications.
      The SDLC typically includes the following phases:

         1. Requirements gathering and analysis: This phase involves gathering information about the software requirements from stakeholders, such as customers, end-users, and 
            business analysts.

         2. Design: In this phase, the software design is created, which includes the overall architecture of the software, data structures, and interfaces. It has two steps:
                    High-level design (HLD): It gives the architecture of software products.
                    Low-level design (LLD): It describes how each and every feature in the product should work and every component.
         3. Implementation or coding: The design is then implemented in code, usually in several iterations, and this phase is also called Development.
                                      things you need to know about this phase:
                                                                               1. This is the longest phase in the SDLC model.
                                                                               2. This phase consists of the Front end + Middleware + Back-end.
                                                                               3. In front-end: Development of coding is done even SEO settings are done.
                                                                               4. In Middleware: They connect both the front end and back end.
                                                                               5. In the back-end: A database is created.
         4. Testing: The software is thoroughly tested to ensure that it meets the requirements and works correctly.

         5. Deployment: After successful testing, The software is deployed to a production environment and made available to end-users.

         6. Maintenance: This phase includes ongoing support, bug fixes, and updates to the software. 

            There are different methodologies that organizations can use to implement the SDLC, such as Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, V-Model, and DevOps.


       
      






